ToricVarieties: Vanishing sets via cohomCalg (#1236)
oscar-system/Oscar.jl: docs/src/ToricVarieties/cohomCalg.md

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["CohomCalg.md"]
```

# Line bundle cohomology with cohomCalg

We employ the cohomCalg algorithm [cohomCalg:Implementation](@cite)
to compute the dimension of line bundle cohomologies as well as vanishing sets.

## Dimensions of line bundle cohomology

```@docs
all_cohomologies(l::ToricLineBundle)
cohomology(l::ToricLineBundle, i::Int)
```

## Vanishing sets

### Shifted cones

```@docs
ShiftedCone(gens::Vector{Vector{Int64}}, shift::Vector{Int64})
```

> Note that a shifted cone is trivial iff there are no generators for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a shifted cone is trivial if and only if there are no generators for
```
"iff" is jargon that not everyone is familiar with

Author: Very well. Thank you.

the cone `C` and there is no affine offset. We support the method
`istrivial(C::ShiftedCone)` to check this.

> Equality of shifted cones `sc1` and `sc2` is supported via `sc1 == sc2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Equality testing for shifted cones `sc1` and `sc2` is supported via `sc1 == sc2`.
```

Author: Thank you. Sounds good!

We support the following attributes for shifted cones:
```@docs
gens(sc::ShiftedCone)
ngens(sc::ShiftedCone)
ambient_dim(sc::ShiftedCone)
offset(sc::ShiftedCone)
cone(sc::ShiftedCone)
```

### Toric vanishing sets

Vanishing sets of toric varieties based on [cohomCalg:Implementation](@cite)
were originally introduced in [Bie18](@cite). They are the complement of
a finite family of shifted cones, as introduced in the previous section.

We construct such a vanishing set by issuing

> `ToricVanishingSet(v::AbstractNormalToricVariety, scs::Vector{ShiftedCone}, i::fmpz)`.

Reviewer: This read a bit strangely to me. "We" don't "issue" `ToricVanishingSet(v::AbstractNormalToricVariety, scs::Vector{ShiftedCone}, i::fmpz)`, I'd say. Perhaps we call or invoke `ToricVanishingSet(v,scs,i)` where `v` is a normal toric variety (or if you prefer to keep it technical: "is of type AbstractNormalToricVariety"), `scs` is a vector of shifted cones and `i` and integer  [...]

BTW I'd hope that `i` can also be an `Int` and that in fact `IntegerUnion` is accepted. Or perhaps even just using `Int` would suffice? This can be argued either way.

Author: You are right. This needs rephrasing. Also, `Int` is indeed sufficient. I'll fix this with a rebase.

This vanishing set then describes all line bundle bundles on the toric variety `v` for which
the `i`-th sheaf cohomology group vanishes.

Given a toric vanishing set `tvs`,  `isfull(tvs)` returns `true` if the vanishing set covers
the entire Picard group of its toric variety. Otherwise, it returns `false`.

The following attributes are supported for toric vanishing sets:
```@docs
toric_variety(tvs::ToricVanishingSet)
shifted_cones(tvs::ToricVanishingSet)
cohomology_index(tvs::ToricVanishingSet)
```

Of ample importance is the ability to check if a toric line bundle is contained in a
toric vanishing set:
```@docs

> contains(tvs::ToricVanishingSet, l::ToricLineBundle)

Reviewer: Sorry for the stupid question (I have *no* idea what these objects are), but to double check: so this means `l` is an *element` of `tvs`, not a subset, yes?

Author: The short answer is "yes".

`l` represents a line bundle. Collectively, all line bundles on a toric variety (or any geometric space) form the Picard group. The vanishing set describes a subsets of the Picard group. The question for `contains` is to tell if `l` is an element of the vanishing set or not.

(I suppose, one could consider `l` as a one-element subset of `tvs`. But this seems besides the point I guess. In any case, `l` is at most one element of the vanishing set `tvs`.)

I suppose I should state this more clearly in the documentation.

Author: I have just done exactly this with a rebase.
